SAP Java Connector 3.1

This document contains information respecting free and open-source software (collectively, "FOSS")
provided with or contained in the software component that this document accompanies.  Any terms,
conditions, and restrictions governing the use or distribution of FOSS that are offered or imposed
by SAP and are not contained within the FOSS license(s) governing the use and distribution of the
FOSS, are offered and imposed by SAP alone. The authors, licensors, and distributors of the FOSS
have disclaimed all warranties relating to any liability arising from the use and distribution of
the FOSS.

While SAP has sought to provide a complete and accurate listing of the FOSS components used with or
within the Product, SAP does not represent or warrant that the listing of FOSS components and
associated notices and licensing information provided herein are complete or error-free. Recipients
of the SDK should investigate the identified FOSS components to confirm the accuracy of the notices
and licensing information provided herein. Recipients are encouraged to notify SAP of any inaccurate
information or errors found in this document.

If you have any questions or concerns please contact SAP by email at opensource@sap.com or via mail
at Dietmar Hopp Allee 16, 69190 Walldorf, Germany, Attn: Global Legal.

Third Party Component                                                   License
Only on IBM i: International Components for Unicode - ICU4C, 51.1       ICU License v1.8.1
lz4 Compression algorithm, 1.9.2                                        BSD Two Clause License

The Open Source components shipped with this product may themselves contain other Open Source
components that may be made available under other Open Source licenses. Please check the
corresponding information that is contained in the Open source archives.

*****************************************************************************************************

ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later

COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE
Copyright (c) 1995-2001 International Business Machines Corporation and others All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and
associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED
IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY
DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF
THIS SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising
or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written
authorization of the copyright holder.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.

*****************************************************************************************************

BSD Two Clause License

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted
provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions
and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.